---
layout: post
title:  "Hired at Yahoo as a Senior Engineer from Fresh Graduate"
date:   2022-05-07 18:29
categories: Life
---

Finding a job as a fresh graduate student is never easy. Add that to the fact that we were foreigners in Taiwan and our mandarin is non-existent, then you have a huge challenge ahead of you.

The great part about being in Taiwan though is having the chance at working at the **really** big “brand name” companies such as Google, Yahoo, Microsoft, Facebook etc. You simply would never have these opportunities back in the Philippines. The hard part was actually convincing these companies that we were worth the risk of hiring. Graduating from National Taiwan University of Science and Technology (NTUST) was a great advantage sure, but it was the simple fact that only the multinational companies with English-speaking teams in which we had a real chance to get hired at. These companies also don’t usually look for entry-level graduates, which brings us to our problem. Miraculously though, I was able to land a job at Yahoo as a **senior** software engineer, despite my status as a “new graduate”. I am here to tell you more about it and how I think I was able to achieve it.

**First was the resume,** you really need it to be catchy, easy-to-read and should practically **scream** your experience. This is what I’ve been told and what I’ve experienced so far in the job hunt process. Never expect the people hiring you to read your resume for more than 10 seconds, this was shown when I was in the interview stage of some of these companies. It was obvious during their questioning of my resume that they didn’t really fully read my resume, just enough to tell that I was worth interviewing. I think I was able to pass through these hoops through the following: being a co-founder of a startup in the Philippines, having a masters degree, and having a good amount of projects (some paid, but not necessarily work experience). From what I’ve learned in this process, it seems like: work experience > projects > certification > education. 

**Next is the interview,** in which I would say is majority of it is really just your personality, communication, and confidence. A good amount of it would be skill for sure, but ultimately its how you present this skill and how you communicate with your interviewer is what will really get you there. You may be the best coder in the world or you may have done the best projects ever, but if you don’t present that properly, it won’t seem so. It really is just marketing at its core. It is similar to how you might view a product negatively even though it is a really good product just because people around you say it is bad. Or a great story-teller telling a subpar story, that story-teller would somehow find a way to spice it up somehow. You just need to meet the baseline skills needed and review the concepts, but confidence and communication is key. Besides, you should be able to review these concepts or have these skills already. If you don’t have them, you won’t be able to get them that quickly. 

**Tenacity,** while not necessarily part of the job interview process, this part is really important for your own growth. You **will** get rejected unless you get lucky and get it in your first, but even then you’ll have to face challenges once you are working. Just remember that rejection doesn’t mean that you suck or that you don’t have what it takes. It can mean a million things: the interviewer just doesn’t like you for unrelated reasons, they aren’t hiring entry-level, they are biased towards the amount of experience you have, you didn’t present to them clearly. What matters here is to focus on things that you can control. Regardless, it just means you may not be hireable **yet**. But there is always room to improve and eventually you will get there. 

**Negotiation,** some people may view this as “unnecessary” or “a good problem to have”, because this usually means that someone already wants to hire you. I think this is still crucial.